
This book started as a project based on my observations. I deal with technology start-up entrepreneurs everyday as a patent attorney. I noticed a difference between the sort of projects my clients were undertaking since the technology downturn of 2000-2001 and the 1990s. Clients in the '90s would come into my office with plans to build businesses that were disruptive or revolutionary. The technologies underlying these companies held the potential to completely redefine a market. Some of these ideas would increase the available bandwidth by 10x for minimal costs or allow data searches that were 10-100x faster than existing technologies. It was extremely exciting talking with these entrepreneurs. Their energy was infectious and the potential implications of their work was mesmerizing. The technology downturn of 2000-2001 forced a reevaluation of these aggressive business plans. I expected that after a couple years of the technology market taking a breath, I would again be working with companies trying to change the world.

This expectation never came to fruition. The start-up companies I came into contact with were all looking for narrow niche markets. Instead of trying to change a whole area of a technology and go public, these companies were looking for a way to develop incremental changes in technology, so they could be bought out by an existing company. I started wondering if other people in the technology business were seeing similar trends. My informal surveys centered around the question of whether this decade (2000-2009) was as innovative as in the '90s. While most people I surveyed felt this decade was not as innovative as the '90s, there were people who disagreed.

Some of the innovations that the dissenters pointed to were the iPod, the tremendous amount of money Intel was spending to build their next microprocessor plant, and the social media industry. While these are certainly innovative, these innovations did not drive the whole economy like the Internet of the '90s. The Internet in the '90s affected almost every business in the U.S. For instance, it drove PC sales, retail, electronics, telecommunications, professional businesses, marketing, newspapers, etc. It also redefined whole areas of life. With email, online