

According to Kiwi Blog “A good move from the Gov’t on patents” [http://www.kiwiblog.co.nz/2013/05/a_good_move_from_the_govt_on_patents.html](http://www.kiwiblog.co.nz/2013/05/a_good_move_from_the_govt_on_patents.html) there is a new Patent Bill that will prohibit patents on software. Logically, this suggests that there is something special about software that is incompatible with patents. In order to determine, we first have to have a clear understanding of what software is and what a patent is. A patent is a property right that a person earns by creating a new invention. But what is an invention? An invention is anything created by man that has an objective result. This definition clearly delineates that inventions are not things in nature or occurring naturally. An invention, also, is not everything created by man. For instance, a painting or a song is a creation of man, but they do not have an objective result. Songs and paintings fall into the category of aesthetic creations. Their goal is to elicit a subjective response and people will react differently. An invention has an objective result. For instance, a controllable heavier than air powered craft, such as the Wright brothers invented has the objective result of controllable powered flight. Software is a set of written instructions that are converted by a compiler (interpreter) into a wiring scheme that opens and closes transistors. Software that is not converted into instructions is just a bunch of bad writing.

Now that we have a clear definition of a patent and software, we can examine whether there is something special about software that would cause it to not be patentable. The written instructions of software do have an objective result, unless they converting into a wiring scheme. Therefore, software code is not patentable. No country has patent laws that apply to software code. The way this is normally stated is that **software per se is not patentable**.

If this was all the New Zealand bill was proposing, we could stop here. But all indications are that the proposed law would not allow patents for inventions in which software was used to wire an electronic circuit. As any electrical engineer knows and software developer should know, solutions to problems implemented in software can also be realized in hardware, i.e., electronic circuits. The main reason for choosing a software solution is the ease in implementing changes, the main reason for choosing a hardware solution is speed of processing. Therefore, a time critical solution is more likely to be implemented in hardware. While a solution that requires the ability to add features easily will be implemented in software. Software is just a method of converting a general purpose electronic circuit (computer) into an application specific electronic circuit. If software is not patentable it leads to absurd results. For instance, if I design a pacemaker using logic circuits, it is patentable. However, if I use a microcontroller to do the exact same thing, it is not patentable.

Software per se is not patentable. Executed software is just a way of wiring an electronic circuit. Electronic circuits have objective results, are a creation of man and therefore an invention. There is no logical reason to distinguish between software-implemented inventions and other inventions. This bill is based on emotion or an anti-property rights agenda or both.