
I continue to hear more and more people who have become or are thinking about becoming expats from the United States. I have written about this issue before, see Phil the Expat [http://hallingblog.com/phil-the-expatriate-how-the-u-s-is-driving-technical-talent-away/](http://hallingblog.com/phil-the-expatriate-how-the-u-s-is-driving-technical-talent-away/). Yesterday I spoke with a man who is moving to Argentina. He is a web designer and marketing expert and clearly thinks his prospects in Argentina are as good or better than the United States. I have doctor friend who has moved to New Zealand with his wife who is also a doctor and I hear reports of my friend’s kids leaving the U.S. for better economic opportunities. I predict it will become commonplace to talk about a brain drain by the end of this decade, if we do not radically alter our course as a country. I will continue to point out stories like these as a run across them as a Siren warning of the tragic course we are steering as a country.

  
  

Our country was the first country in the history of the world built on the idea of individual rights (there is no such thing a positive rights). Our commitment to individual rights is what made us great as a nation, because it is the only system of government consistent with the nature of a rational animal. Today, our Constitution is meaningless. The Bill of Rights has been shredded by the regulatory state that proclaims that the Bill of Rights does not apply to civil regulations. (see Regulatory Bill of Rights [http://hallingblog.com/regulatory-bill-of-rights/](http://hallingblog.com/regulatory-bill-of-rights/)) If we want to be great again, we have to limit the government to protecting our individual rights.